Hey what's up.
Welcome back again.
As mentioned in the last lesson in today's lesson we will continue to talk about the ADD support function
in the last lesson.
We declared support for custom headers and in this new lesson we're going to talk about the thumbnails.
We actually began this lesson.
I want to show you one of the themes available for download in the Wordpress repository seems like this
one are very good for understanding what our thumbnails and how we can use them in wordpress.
As you can see this is a kind of news portal.
It is divided into several sections and for each section got loops with the posts and the featured image
in them there are moments when this image is very small.
Others are a little bigger.
Together in this scene it seems like there are four of five different image sizes.
These images here are what WordPress calls thumbnails.
The question here is how can we add those images those thumbnails to a WordPress post.
If we look at our current blog listing here on the blog page we see that loop has only text content
nothing else.
At the same time if you go over to the dashboard and open some of those posts for example let's open
up this post here will see that there is no place here in the Adager Very can include a thumbnail that
is a Ni-MH that represents this particular post and differentiate it from the others.
And this is why we are going to do in this lesson.
So let's go back to Sublime Text and we want to open our functions far continuing where we left off
in the last lesson.
Well to add thumbnail support we got to use the same function we used in the last lesson called ADD
support.
Except this time we're going to be passing a new argument.
So still think our configuration function less typing at thing supports
and pass a new argument in here in single quotes as a string less typing post hyphen something else
Rosello can I add this ADD thing support.
Out of this configuration function.
Yes you can but as I want my code to be well organized I'll be writing it right inside this function.
When we save this file and return to the Post editor refresh the page we can see that here on the right
side we have a new box would press close of these boxes metal boxes and now I have a link that allows
me to choose a feature image from my post as go having click here and see how it works.
Go ahead and upload any image
and to set it as a future image for this post and then you click on this blue button.
Now you can see that it would appear here in the matter box as a future post image.
Go ahead and update the post and I'm going to do the same for the other posts.
So far so good.
I just updated last post with the featured image.
What are you going to do now.
Well let's check our pulseless to see what we have in now.
Reload the page and nothing happened and why.
Well the answer is always the same.
We need to make clear in our files where we want the filtered image to appear in our case.
We wanted to position it between the title and the publication date.
Floating to the left but before explaining this to you I wanted to explain how WordPress controls the
size of thumbnails and what a thumbnail really means for wordpress.
If it had overture settings media we see that there was a space where we can define the size of all
the images.
First item is thumbnail size.
By default the size is 150 by 150.
That is a square thumbnail then we have the medium size which has a maximum width of 300 pixels large
size maximum width of 10:24 pixels and there is still an intermediate size that is not showing up here
in THE LIST today.
We're going to learn how to have greater control over the sizes.
You see that it's quite simple it's probably something that probably the author of this theme here must
have done.
I say this even without looking at the code scenes as you can see.
There are four or five different image sizes throughout the scene.
Of course we can make a couple of changes even here in the Wordpress admin for example if you want all
those small size images to have a maximum of 100 pixels.
We can find this here but we can have even more control.
This is the great advantage of knowing how to create things ourselves.
Let's see how we can do it for this.
We're going to edit our index that page peafowl which is the default template and is the file that is
generated in this post Alison.
But the basic idea that I'm going to present to you can be used whenever you want to include those thumbnails
first let's find out where exactly we want to do the thumbnail.
In our case it's going to be placed between that H2 tag and the publication date here.
We want to call a function inside the BJP tags.
This function is called the Post found now.
After that we can save the file
reload the page
and look we have the featured image for the first item for the second for the third.
But notice however that each image has a different size.
Some of them are so big that they generate this horrible scroll bar.
So why does it happen simply because we need to tell WordPress what thumbnail size we want and go back
to the next page we file and let's do it then well as we've seen in the Wordpress admin area there are
four predefined image sizes.
We have the thumbnail itself that is the smallest featured image size for a post.
We have the medium size is large size is and also full size is best.
The first image size inside branches and that will be thumbnail.
Now when you reload the page you can see that our images have the same size the size is the default
size of the thumbnail 150 by 150 pixels.
So what is happening here.
Well the moment we upload an image WordPress creates several copies of the same image each one with
a specific size.
If we expand uploads folder we will see that for the same file there is the original image and image
of 150 by 150.
Another image with a maximum with 300 pixels 768 pixels and then 24 pixels.
This helps us choose the correct size of the future image to be used.
If for example I choose the medium size I will end up with an image with a maximum width of 300 pixels.
We can also choose the large which will be a slightly larger size or for that is the original image
for with not cropped but the whole thing doesn't stop here.
We can be even more specific and create new image sizes on the fly.
For example lets say that in that position of the page I need an image that has 275 by 275 pixels for
this.
When you create an array inside a function and separate the by colors are going to pass the width and
the height that you want
to look at is now the image is slightly bigger.
And this is just the beginning.
If you visit the Codex you can find even more advanced examples where you finish out Riego and you apply
some CSSA to the images because we want our images to look a bit better.
First of all let's inspect this element.
Notice here that the feature image in wordpress automatically receives a class called W.P. post image.
We can create a new successful based on this class.
But suppose for example that it will flow to the left and it will have the following margin values.
And we can also say that the article tags will have a different display.
Cause the article tags to display one underneath the other separated by a space
OK.
Now we have a slightly more acceptable look and I think that's all for this lesson.
I hope you enjoyed it as I told you.
We just scratched the surface of this argument.
That adds thumbnail support.
There is much more to be learned in the codex.
So don't be lazy go ahead and take a look at the Wordpress documentation.
OK so peace out.
Guys thanks for watching and I'll wait for you in our next lesson by.